Creates a "Writing a spike" document for the conda organization (#611)
conda/infra: SPIKES.md

or implemented**. An example of this are prototypes created to explore possible solutions.
Not all prototypes are implemented and the purpose of creating a prototype
is often to explore the problem space more. For research oriented tasks, the end result
of this research may be that a feature request simply is not viable at the moment and
would result in putting a stop to that work.

Finally, spikes are **time boxed**. This means that we set a definite limit on how long
we want our contributors to work on a spike issue. We do this to prevent contributors
from falling into a rabbit hole they may never return from (scary!). Instead, we set
a time limit, typically between 1 and 3 days, to perform work on the spike and then
have the assignee report back to the development team. If the deliverables defined in
the spike have not yet been completed, a decision is made on whether it makes sense
to perform further work on the spike.

Below is what that workflow looks like:

```mermaid
flowchart LR

A[Create Spike] --> B[Work on spike for\n timebox amount, \n update if necessary]
B --> C{is it done?}
C -->|No| E{do we want\nto continue?}
C -->|Yes| D[Finished]
E -->|Yes | B

> E -->|No| D

Author: Thank @kenodegard, this is my first time creating a chart with mermaid. I will reference that style chart next time.

```

### When do I create a spike?

A spike should be created when we do not have enough information to move forward with solving
a problem. That simply means whenever we are dealing with unknowns or processes which our
development team has never encountered before, it may be useful for us to create a spike issue.

In day-to-day work, this may appear when new bug reports or feature requests
come in which deal with problems or technologies that our development team is unfamiliar with.
For all issues which our development team has sufficient knowledge of, these issues should
instead be created as regular issues.

### When do I **not** create a spike?

Below are some common scenarios where creating a spike is not appropriate:

- Writing a technical specification
- Design work that would go into drafting how a library our API is going to be created
- Any work that must be completed or is not optional

### How do I create a spike?

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Spikes start as a task associated with a regular issue. Only create a spike issue if we determine the spike to be a larger endeavor with multiple deliverables, see the guidelines below.

```

Reviewer 2: Who's "we" here?

Also "see the guidelines below" should be its own sentence.

Author: @kenodegard, I have at least one issue with this: spikes don't always start as tasks for a regular issue. For example, creating a prototype wouldn't necessarily always start off with an associated issue. So, let's make sure to accommodate for this as well. 

Perhaps it may be better to first describe what a "mini" spike looks like and then what a spike looks like. Here's how a "mini" spike could look like on a regular issue:

- [ ] Spike description (time box: _1 day_)
  - [ ] Create a report with your finding from the spike; include recommendation if relevant

☝️ As you can see it includes the time box and what we expect as the deliverable. We can assume issue itself would have enough background information.

## Writing a Spike at `conda`

### Summary

In this document, we go over the procedure to follow when creating spikes. Exactly what
these types of issues are and the steps to take when creating them are all outlined
below. These guidelines apply for all projects falling underneath the
[conda](github.com/conda) organization.

### What is a spike?

A spike is a term that is borrowed from extreme programming and agile development.
They are used when the **outcome of a ticket is unknown or even optional**. For example,
when first coming across a problem that has not been solved before, a team may choose
to either research the problem or create a prototype in order to better understand it.

Additionally, spikes represent work that **may or may not actually be completed
or implemented**. An example of this are prototypes created to explore possible solutions.
Not all prototypes are implemented and the purpose of creating a prototype
is often to explore the problem space more. For research oriented tasks, the end result
of this research may be that a feature request simply is not viable at the moment and
would result in putting a stop to that work.

> Finally, spikes are **time boxed**. This means that we set a definite limit on how long

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Finally, spikes are **timeboxed**. This means that we set a definite limit on how long
```
"Timebox" is written as one word in the rest of this doc so I'm suggesting this change to keep things consistent

Author: That word doesn't appear in my dictionary, so I'm going to switch to using the two word version.

to perform further work on the spike.

Below is what that workflow looks like:

```mermaid
flowchart LR

%% nodes
create[Create spike]
work[Work on spike for\ntimebox amount]
done{Is it done?}
finished[Finished]
continue{More time?}

%% graph
create --> work
work --> done
done -->|No| continue
done -->|Yes| finished
continue -->|Yes,\nset new timebox| work
continue -->|No| finished
```

### When do I create a spike?

A spike should be created when we do not have enough information to move forward with solving
a problem. That simply means whenever we are dealing with unknowns or processes which our
development team has never encountered before, it may be useful for us to create a spike.

In day-to-day work, this may appear when new bug reports or feature requests
come in which deal with problems or technologies that our development team is unfamiliar with.
For all issues which our development team has sufficient knowledge of, these issues should
instead proceed as regular issues.

### When do I **not** create a spike?

Below are some common scenarios where creating a spike is not appropriate:

- Writing a technical specification

> - Design work that would go into drafting how a library our API is going to be created

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Design work that would go into drafting how a library in our API is going to be created
```
(actually I'm not sure if this is the correct edit, but as it is currently this sentence needs to be clarified a bit)

Author: Thanks for pointing this out. I think I will go with:
```suggestion
- Design work that would go into drafting how a part of our API is going to be created
```

- Any work that must be completed or is not optional

### How do I create a spike?

> #### All spikes need to following information

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Requirements for all spikes
```

- The "spike" label
- A timebox between 0 and 3 days (e.g. 4 hours; 2 days)
- Background information for a would-be assignee
- Clear deliverables. These should state exactly what needs to be done.

>   For example, if we expect to create another issue as result of this spike, that should be stated.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  For example, if we expect to create another issue as a result of this spike, that should be stated.
```

- Spikes can be created from existing issues. Bug reports are a good example of this. When converting
  existing issues, make sure the issues have all of the requirements from above.
- If a spike only has a single deliverable and a low timebox, consider adding it as a task to another
  related issue.

> - Spikes need deliverables. If there are no deliverables listed, do not work on the spike and instead
>   determine what these deliverables are before going forward and update the spike.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Spikes need deliverables. If there are no deliverables listed, do not work on the spike and instead
  determine what these deliverables are before going forward and updating the spike.
```

Author: @kathatherine, here I'm going to stick with what I wrote because I mean it like:

Do not work on the spike and instead:
- determine ....
- update the spike

Hope that makes sense 😄

Reviewer 3: With your clarification in mind, I suggest rewording this sentence like:

```
Spikes need deliverables. If there are no deliverables listed, do not work on the spike; instead, determine what these deliverables are and then update the spike with that information.
```

Reviewer 2: I agree with Bianca's edit.

Author: Thanks @beeankha!

```suggestion
- Spikes need deliverables. If there are no deliverables listed, do not work on the spike; instead, determine what these deliverables are and then update the spike with that information.
```
